What is application.properties vs application.yml?

What is Spring Boot and how is it different from Spring Framework?

What is application.properties vs application.yml?

How does Spring Boot handle dependency injection?

What’s the purpose of @ConfigurationProperties and @EnableConfigurationProperties?

How do you load custom config files?

*** What is the difference between CrudRepository, JpaRepository, and PagingAndSortingRepository?

How is pagination and sorting handled?

How do you use custom queries with @Query?

What is the N+1 problem and how do you fix it?

What is @Cacheable, @CacheEvict, and @CachePut?

How do you configure a caching provider like EhCache or Redis?

What is circular dependency and how do you fix it?

How do you resolve memory leaks with HikariCP?

What is Log Aggregation? Explain ELK stack.

How do you monitor your application using Prometheus + Grafana?

What is circuit breaker? How is Hystrix or Resilience4J used?

How do you do service discovery using Eureka?

use @profile in springboot ? @qualifier ?

 @Configuration vs @Component vs plain class

🧟 10. Prototype in Singleton?

📜 11. What’s spring.factories for?

an we do everything with an Interceptor instead of a Filter?

wait vs sleep

monitor lock 

states of thread 

equals and hashcode 

fail fast vs fail slow 

predi4cta vs consumer 

map vs flatmap

optional


class inmolemtingv two interface with same method 


method reference vs concsttuvto ref


service vs component why 

why to use constructio injection 


what if both component and sevice applied same spot 

benefit of using maven

when to use parallel streams


what are class loaders types?

why string immutable ?
why char array for password inst of string ?

oops importance not 4 pillars --> modularity 

enum?

why java 8 introudced ?dont tell fetatures

diff btw intermediate and ternary in streams 

whast reduce in sterams?

lambda to funtional interface 

enhancement to hasmap in java 8 

why set no nulls ?

hascode and equals whivh first do both excute always ?*****

whhere we get concurrent modifiction exception ?

what is identity and wwek hashmap 

runnabel and callable 

more than once start on thread --> iillgal thread exceptoon 

how crreate new exception of runtime 

how external configuration in boot ?

which first prop or yml prop is defalt?

using javax ?

boostrap.yml 

diff japa dn crud 

connect one micro to other sync vs async --> kafka for async 

monitpring the logs ?

how to secure actuator endpoints 

deleetd code ?  202, 203?

returning custom obj vs response entity ?

indexing in annotatuion way 


















